---
layout: default
nav_order: 2
parent: Project Setup
title: Visual Studio
has_children: true
---

# Visual Studio

Visual Studio is a popular IDE for Windows. It is the most popular IDE for C++ development on Windows.
When you [install](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads/) Visual Studio, you can choose to install the C++ workload, which will install the C++ compiler and other tools required for C++ development.

Visual studio is known as a IDE (Integrated Development Environment). This means that it is a program that contains a text editor, compiler, debugger, and other tools that are useful for developing software.

Visual studio supports a variety of build systems, including CMake and Make. It also supports a variety of languages, including C++, C#, and Python.

The default compiler for Visual Studio is MSVC (Microsoft Visual C++ Compiler). MSVC is a proprietary compiler that is only available on Windows. It is the most popular compiler for C++ development on Windows.
This dosent mean that you cant use other compilers with Visual Studio. You can use GCC or Clang with Visual Studio, but you will need to install them separately. (Clang now being available from the visual stdui installer)

> Note: Visual Studio is only available on Windows. If you are on Linux or Mac, you can use Visual Studio Code, which is a cross-platform version of Visual Studio. although it dosent have all the features of Visual Studio, it is still a very powerful IDE if set up correctly.

## File Structure

Visual Studio projects are stored in a folder with the extension `.vcxproj`. This folder contains the project file, which has the extension `.vcxproj`, and a folder called `Source` or `src`, which contains the source files for the project.

### `.vcxproj`

The project file is an XML file that contains information about the project, such as the compiler options and the source files. It is generated by Visual Studio when you create a new project. (Typically you dont need to edit this file manually)

This file will contain all the command args you would normally pass to the compiler when building your project, such as include directories, preprocessor definitions, and compiler flags.

### `Source` or `src`

The source folder contains the source files for the project. This folder is typically named `Source` or `src`, but it can be named anything you want. The source folder can contain any number of subfolders, which can contain any number of source files.

### Diagram

```
MyProject
├── MyProject.vcxproj
└── Source
    ├── main.cpp
    └── MyProject
        ├── MyProject.cpp
        └── MyProject.h

```
